---
title: Monte Carlo Portfolio Optimisation
---

Flakes are very handy to setup entirely pure,
project-specific dependencies (not just dependencies, but
build steps, shell environments and more) in a declarative
way. Writing Flake expressions can get repetitive though,
oftentimes, you'd much rather start off with a skeleton.
Luckily, `nix` already supports templates!

You might already be familiar with `nix flake init`, that
drops a "default" flake expression into your current working
directory. If you head over to the manpage:

Flakes are very handy to setup entirely pure,
project-specific dependencies (not just dependencies, but
build steps, shell environments and more) in a declarative
way. Writing Flake expressions can get repetitive though,
oftentimes, you'd much rather start off with a skeleton.
Luckily, `nix` already supports templates!

You might already be familiar with `nix flake init`, that
drops a "default" flake expression into your current working
directory. If you head over to the manpage:

Flakes are very handy to setup entirely pure,
project-specific dependencies (not just dependencies, but
build steps, shell environments and more) in a declarative
way. Writing Flake expressions can get repetitive though,
oftentimes, you'd much rather start off with a skeleton.
Luckily, `nix` already supports templates!

You might already be familiar with `nix flake init`, that
drops a "default" flake expression into your current working
directory. If you head over to the manpage:

Flakes are very handy to setup entirely pure,
project-specific dependencies (not just dependencies, but
build steps, shell environments and more) in a declarative
way. Writing Flake expressions can get repetitive though,
oftentimes, you'd much rather start off with a skeleton.
Luckily, `nix` already supports templates!

You might already be familiar with `nix flake init`, that
drops a "default" flake expression into your current working
directory. If you head over to the manpage:

===

```bash
nix flake init --help
```

===

You will read that `nix flake init` creates a flake using
the "default template". Additionally, you can create a flake
from a specific template by passing the `-t` flag. Where
does this default originate from?

# Flake Registries

Quick detour into registries! Registries are a way to alias
popular flakes using identifiers:

===

```
# inside ~/mytemplates/flake.nix

{
  description = "Pepper's flake templates";

  outputs = { self, ... }: {
    templates = {
      latex-report = {
        path = ./latex-report-template;
        description = "A latex whitepaper project";
      };
      rust-hello = {
        path = ./rust-hello-template;
        description = "Simple Hello World in Rust";
      };
    };
  };
}
```